.\" Copyright (C) 2010 Manuel Urueña <muruenya@it.uc3m.es>
.\" It may be distributed under the GNU Public License, version 3, or
.\" any higher version. See section COPYING of the GNU Public license
.\" for conditions under which this file may be redistributed.
.TH "RAWIFACE" "3" "2010-09-01" "Universidad Carlos III de Madrid" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.PP
.SH "NAME"
rawiface_open(), rawiface_getname(), rawiface_getaddr(),
rawiface_getmtu(), rawiface_close() - 
Functions to handle host's network interfaces.
.PP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <rawnet.h>
.sp
.BI "rawiface_t * rawiface_open ( char* " ifname " );"
.sp
.BI "char* rawiface_getname ( rawiface_t * " iface " );"
.sp
.BI "int rawiface_getaddr ( rawiface_t * " iface ", unsigned char " addr "[] );"
.sp
.BI "int rawiface_getmtu ( rawiface_t * " iface " );"
.sp
.BI "int rawiface_close ( rawiface_t * " iface " );"
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBrawiface_open()\fP initializes the network interface named \fIifname\fP in
"raw" mode. Once the interface has been opened, it is possible to employ the
remaining functions to obtain information about it. It is also possible to
send and receive "raw" packets using \fBrawnet_recv()\fP and
\fBrawnet_send()\fP.
.PP
\fBrawiface_getname()\fP, \fBrawiface_getaddr()\fP, \fBrawiface_getmtu()\fP
functions allow to obtain, respectively, the name, the hardware address, and
the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) of the specified interface.
.PP
\fBrawiface_close()\fP is the reverse operation to \fBrawiface_open()\fP
because it closes the interface and frees the resources employed by its
handler.
.PP
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
The \fIifname\fP parameter of the \fBrawiface_open()\fP function is a text
string that contains the name of the interface to be opened.
.PP
The \fIiface\fP parameters are pointers to the interface handlers, which must
have been previously created with the \fBrawiface_open()\fP function. The
memory of such handler should be freed with \fBrawiface_close()\fP when it is
no longer necessary.
.PP
The \fIaddr\fP of the \fBrawiface_getaddr()\fP function is a output parameter
where the hardware address of the specified network interface will be
copied. Such variable must have a size of \fBHW_ADDR_MAX_SIZE\fP bytes at
least, and its memory must have been reserved previously. 
\fBrawiface_getaddr()\fP return the real length of that address.
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
\fBrawiface_open()\fP returns a pointer to the handler of the opened
interface.
.PP
\fBrawiface_getname()\fP returns a pointer to the text string with the name of
the opened interface.
.PP
\fBrawiface_getaddr()\fP returns the real length of the interface's hardware
address. The address itself is copied in the \fIaddr\fP output parameter.
.PP
\fBrawiface_getmtu()\fP returns the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) in bytes
of the interface. That is, the maximum length of the packets that can be sent
through it.
.PP
\fBrawiface_close()\fP returns 0 if the interface has been correctly closed.
.PP
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
The \fBrawiface_getaddr()\fP, \fBrawiface_getmtu()\fP and
\fBrawiface_close()\fP functions return -1 if the interface handler is NULL or
it has not been correctly initialized, or there has been some internal error. 
.PP
The \fBrawiface_open()\fP and \fBrawiface_getaddr()\fP functions return NULL
in case of error.
.PP
You can employ the \fBrawnet_strerror()\fP function to obtain a detailed
description of the last error.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rawnet (3),
.BR rawnet_send (3),
.BR rawnet_recv (3),
.BR rawnet_poll (3),
.BR rawnet_strerror (3)
