.\" Copyright (C) 2010 Manuel Urueña <muruenya@it.uc3m.es>
.\" It may be distributed under the GNU Public License, version 3, or
.\" any higher version. See section COPYING of the GNU Public license
.\" for conditions under which this file may be redistributed.
.TH "RAWNET_RECV" "3" "2010-09-01" "Universidad Carlos III de Madrid" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.PP
.SH "NAME"
rawnet_recv() - Function to receive "raw" packets.
.PP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <rawnet.h>
.sp
.BI "int rawnet_recv ( rawiface_t * " iface ", unsigned char " buffer "[], int " buf_len ", long int " timeout " );"
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
This function obtains the next packet received by the specified interface. 
This operation could wait indefinitely or a limited time depending on the
\fItimeout\fP parameter.
.PP
This function is able to receive packets just from a single interface. If you
want to listen to several interfaces simultaneously, use the
\fBrawnet_poll()\fP function.
.PP
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
\fIiface\fP is the handler of the interface where the packet is received
from. The interface must have been previously initialized with
\fBrawiface_open()\fP. 
.PP
\fIbuffer\fP specifies the array where the content of the received packet will
be stored, including the layer 2 and upper headers.
.PP
\fIbuf_len\fP is the maximum buffer size in bytes . If the size of the buffer
is lower than the one of the received packet, only \fIbuf_len\fP bytes will be
copied into \fIbuffer\fP, although the function will return the total length
of the received packet.
.PP
\fItimeout\fP specifies the time in milliseconds that should be waited for a
packet to be received before retuning. A negative number specifies that the
function should wait indefinitely, while with a 0 the function will return
immediately no matter a packet has been received or not.
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
The length in bytes of the received packet, or 0 if no packet has been
received because the timer has expired.
.PP
Notice that the returned length may be greater than the maximum number of
bytes (\fIbuf_len\fP) copied into \fIbuffer\fP.
.PP
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
Function returns -1 if some error has occurred. The full error description can
be obtained by means of the \fBrawnet_strerror()\fP function.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rawnet (3),
.BR rawnet_poll (3),
.BR rawnet_strerror (3)
