.\" Copyright (C) 2010 Manuel Urueña <muruenya@it.uc3m.es>
.\" It may be distributed under the GNU Public License, version 3, or
.\" any higher version. See section COPYING of the GNU Public license
.\" for conditions under which this file may be redistributed.
.TH "RAWNET_POLL" "3" "2010-09-01" "Universidad Carlos III de Madrid" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.PP
.SH "NAME"
rawnet_poll() - Function to listen multiple "raw" interfaces.
.PP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <rawnet.h>
.sp
.BI "int rawnet_poll ( rawiface_t " ifaces "[], int " ifnum ", long int " timeout " );"
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
This function listens packets in multiple interfaces simultaneously. When any
of the of the specified interfaces receives a packet, the function will return
the first interface that has a packet ready to be received by means of the
\fBrawnet_recv()\fP function.
.PP
This operation is able to listen the interfaces indefinitely or a limited time
depending on the \fItimeout\fP parameter.
.PP
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
\fIifaces\fP is an array with the interfaces' handlers to receive from. All
interfaces must have been previously initialized with \fBrawiface_open()\fP.
.PP
\fIifnum\fP specifies the number of interfaces that the \fIifaces\fP array
contains.
.PP
\fItimeout\fP is the time in milliseconds that should be waited for a packet
to be received before returning. A negative number specifies that the function
should wait indefinitely. 
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
The index of the first interface [0, ifnum-1] that has a packet ready to be
received or -2 if the timer has expired.
.PP
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
Function returns -1 if some error has occur. The full error description can be
obtained by means of the \fBrawnet_strerror()\fP function.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rawnet (3),
.BR rawnet_recv (3),
.BR rawnet_strerror (3)
