.\" Copyright (C) 2010 Manuel Urueña <muruenya@it.uc3m.es>
.\" It may be distributed under the GNU Public License, version 3, or
.\" any higher version. See section COPYING of the GNU Public license
.\" for conditions under which this file may be redistributed.
.TH "TIMERMS" "3" "2010-09-01" "Universidad Carlos III de Madrid" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.PP
.SH "NAME"
timerms \- Timer with millisecond accuracy.
.PP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <timerms.h>
.sp
.BI "long long int timerms_reset ( timerms_t * " timer ", long int " timeout " );"
.sp
.BI "long int timerms_elapsed ( timerms_t * " timer " );"
.sp
.BI "long int timerms_left ( timerms_t * " timer " );"
.sp
.BI "long long int timerms_time();"
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
This library provides timers with an accuracy of milliseconds. For that
purpose it is only necessary to initialize the timer with the
\fBtimerms_reset()\fP function, specifying its timeout in milliseconds.
.PP
Once initialized, the elapsed time can be obtained with
\fBtimerms_elapsed()\fP and the remaining time until expiration with
\fBtimerms_left()\fP. Once the timer has expired, the \fBtimerms_left()\fP
function will always return a 0 value.
.PP
It is also possible to set an "infinite" timer, which never timeouts. For that
purpose it is enough to reset it with a negative \fItimeout\fP. In this case,
\fBtimerms_left()\fP will return a negative time (lower than -1).
.PP
The \fBtimerms_time()\fP function returns the current time, specified as the
number of milliseconds that have elapsed since the beginning of the "Epoch":
January 1st 1970, at 00:00:00.
.PP
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
\fBtimerms_t\fP is an opaque structure that stores the timer state. It must be
initialized with \fBtimerms_reset()\fP before being queried with
\fBtimerms_elapsed()\fP and \fBtimerms_left()\fP. 
.PP
When initializing the timer with \fBtimersms_reset()\fP, the \fItimeout\fP
parameter specifies the number of milliseconds until the timer expires. Any
negative \fItimeout\fP value creates an "infinite" timer, which never
expires.
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
\fBtimerms_time()\fP and \fBtimerms_reset()\fP return the current time in
milliseconds.
.PP
\fBtimerms_elapsed()\fP returns the number of milliseconds since the timer was
initialized.
.PP
\fBtimerms_left()\fP returns the number of milliseconds left until the timer
expires, 0 if it has already timeout, or a negative value other than -1 if it
is an "infinite" timer that never expires.
.PP
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
\fBtimerms_elapsed()\fP and \fBtimerms_left()\fP functions return -1 if
\fItimer\fP has not been reset correctly or it is NULL. 
.PP
\fBtimerms_reset()\fP and \fBtimerms_time()\fP functions can return -1 int he
case some error occurs when accessing the system's time.
.PP
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
To create a timer that expires in 500 ms:
.nf

    timerms_t timer;
    long int timeout = 500;
    long long int now = timerms_reset(&timer, timeout);
    long int elapsed_time = timerms_elapsed(&timer); /* elapsed_time = 0 */
    long int time_left = timerms_left(&timer);       /* time_left = 500 */
    ...
    elapsed_time = timerms_elapsed(&timer);          /* elapsed_time = 100 */
    time_left = timerms_left(&timer);                /* time_left = 400 */
    ...
    elapsed_time = timerms_elapsed(&timer);          /* elapsed_time = 500 */
    time_left = timerms_left(&timer);                /* time_left = 0 */
    ...
    elapsed_time = timerms_elapsed(&timer);          /* elapsed_time = 1000 */
    time_left = timerms_left(&timer);                /* time_left = 0 */

.fi
To create an "infinite" timer:
.nf

    timerms_t timer;
    long int timeout = -1;
    long long int now = timerms_reset(&timer, timeout);
    long int elapsed_time = timerms_elapsed(&timer); /* elapsed_time = 0 */
    long int time_left = timerms_left(&timer);       /* time_left < -1 */
    ...
    elapsed_time = timerms_elapsed(&timer);          /* elapsed_time = 1000 */
    time_left = timerms_left(&timer);                /* time_left < -1 */

.fi
.PP
